Logic Pro  
Effects
for Mac

Contents

Effects overview 

Effects overview 

Add, remove, move, and copy plug-ins 

Amps and pedals 

Amps and pedals overview 

Amp Designer 

Bass Amp Designer 

Pedalboard 

Stompboxes 

Delay effects 

Delay effects overview 

Delay Designer 

Echo controls 

Sample Delay controls 

Stereo Delay controls 

Tape Delay controls 

Distortion effects 

Distortion effects overview 

Bitcrusher controls 

ChromaGlow controls 

Clip Distortion controls 

Distortion effect controls 

Distortion II controls 

Overdrive controls 

Phase Distortion controls 

7

7

8

12

12

13

27

38

46

58

58

58

76

76

77

79

81

81

82

83

85

86

87

88

88

2

Logic Pro Effects for MacDynamics processors 

Dynamics processors overview 

Adaptive Limiter controls 

Compressor 

DeEsser 2 controls 

Enveloper controls 

Expander controls 

Limiter controls 

Multipressor 

Noise Gate 

Surround Compressor 

Equalizers 

Equalizers overview 

Channel EQ 

Linear Phase EQ 

Match EQ 

Single Band EQ controls 

Vintage EQ Collection 

Filter effects 

Filter effects overview 

AutoFilter 

EVOC 20 Filterbank 

EVOC 20 TrackOscillator 

Fuzz-Wah 

Spectral Gate 

Imaging processors 

Imaging processors overview 

Binaural Post-Processing controls 

Spatial Audio Monitoring 

Direction Mixer 

Stereo Spread controls 

Mastering Assistant 

Mastering Assistant overview 

Add Mastering Assistant to a project 

Mastering Assistant parameters 

90

90

91

92

99

101

102

103

104

109

112

115

115

116

123

129

134

135

141

141

141

146

151

162

165

168

168

168

170

171

174

175

175

176

177

3

Logic Pro Effects for MacMetering tools 

Metering tools overview 

BPM Counter 

Correlation Meter 

Level Meter 

Loudness Meter 

MultiMeter 

Surround MultiMeter 

Use Tuner utility and plug-in 

MIDI plug-ins 

Use MIDI plug-ins 

Arpeggiator MIDI plug-in 

Chord Trigger 

Modifier controls 

Modulator 

Note Repeater controls 

Randomizer controls 

Scripter 

Transposer controls 

Velocity Processor 

Record MIDI to Track 

Modulation effects 

Modulation effects overview 

Chorus controls 

Ensemble controls 

Flanger controls 

Microphaser controls 

Modulation Delay controls 

Phaser controls 

Ringshifter 

Rotor Cabinet effect 

Scanner Vibrato controls 

Spreader controls 

Tremolo controls 

181

181

181

182

183

184

185

191

198

200

200

201

216

220

221

225

226

227

243

243

246

248

248

248

249

251

251

252

254

255

260

264

265

266

4

Logic Pro Effects for MacMulti effects 

Multi-effects overview 

Beat Breaker 

Phat FX 

Remix FX 

Step FX 

Pitch effects 

Pitch effects overview 

Pitch Correction effect 

Pitch Shifter 

Vocal Transformer 

Reverb effects 

Reverb effects overview 

ChromaVerb 

EnVerb controls 

Quantec Room Simulator 

SilverVerb controls 

Space Designer convolution reverb 

Space Designer overview 

Space Designer interface 

Use impulse responses 

Space Designer envelopes and EQ 

Space Designer global parameters 

Specialized effects 

Specialized effects overview 

Exciter controls 

SubBass 

Utilities and tools 

Utilities and tools overview 

Auto Sampler 

Down Mixer controls 

Gain controls 

Use I/O utility 

Multichannel Gain controls 

Test Oscillator 

268

268

269

277

285

288

300

300

300

305

307

310

310

311

317

319

327

328

328

329

330

334

342

349

349

349

350

353

353

353

358

359

360

361

362

5

Logic Pro Effects for MacLegacy effects 

Legacy effects overview 

AVerb controls 

Bass Amp controls 

DeEsser controls 

Denoiser 

Ducker controls 

EQ 

GoldVerb 

Grooveshifter controls 

Guitar Amp Pro 

PlatinumVerb 

Silver Compressor controls 

Silver Gate controls 

Speech Enhancer controls 

Copyright 

364

364

364

365

366

368

369

371

374

377

378

383

386

387

388

389

6

Logic Pro Effects for MacEffects overview

Effects overview in Logic Pro for Mac
Logic Pro provides an extensive suite of software effect plug-ins that can be used in  
your productions.

See the Add, remove, move, and copy plug-ins and Work in the plug-in window sections.

Effects categories include both insert effects and processors that are principally designed 
for mastering use. Because you’re free to use almost all plug-ins as you see fit, there are 
few restrictions on the use of effects anywhere in the signal path.

Most effects can be used in mono, stereo, dual mono, or surround channels. Logic Pro  
also provides a number of dedicated surround plug-ins. See Use surround effects and 
Multi-mono effects.

Effects categories cover essential studio processors, such as compression, gating, 
limiting, equalization, and metering utilities. Both vintage and modern style compressors 
are emulated, making it easy to attain the sonic characteristics you need. See Dynamics 
processors and Metering tools.

EQ options are extensive. The Linear Phase EQ is perfect for sculpting your primary vocal and 
instrument parts. Match EQ analyzes existing audio and allows you to impose an analyzed 
sonic “fingerprint” on other audio parts. The vintage EQ collection delivers emulations of 
three classic analog EQ units known for their distinctive sonic coloration. See Equalizers.

A comprehensive collection of reverb, delay, and modulation effects is available to enhance 
your productions. Among these are the unique ChromaVerb, the Quantec Room Simulator, 
and the sophisticated and highly configurable Delay Designer and Space Designer plug-
ins. Delay Designer lets you create precise, complex, and rhythmic delays. Space Designer 
is a convolution reverb that uses recordings of real-world spaces, such as concert halls 
and canyons, that you can impose on your audio, effectively placing your instrument or 
vocal in the space. See Reverb effects and Delay effects.

Modulation processors include phasing, flanging, ring modulation, vintage rotary speaker 
emulation, and rich chorus effects. See Modulation effects.

If you’re a guitarist or are using the classic B3 organ, Rhodes, Clavinet, or Mellotron 
emulations provided by the included vintage instruments, you can choose from a vast 
collection of retro and modern effect pedals and amplifier simulations. See Amps and pedals.

A number of powerful Distortion and Filter effects further expand your options. The filters 
include vocoder-like utilities and the Spectral Gate plug-in that offer control over the 
formant and spectral characteristics of your sounds.

7

Logic Pro Effects for MacAdding a further string to your bow are the flexible, powerful, and fun multi effects units 
that combine a collection of processors and modulators in one place. See Multi effects. 
These are ideal for use with urban and dance floor-oriented tracks, but can truly transform 
any sound you want to run through them.

You can manipulate pitch with the Pitch Correction, Pitch Shifter and Vocal Transformer 
effects. These can be used for subtle corrections or for heavy Cher-like processing of 
vocals and instruments. See Pitch effects.

A selection of MIDI plug-ins includes a flexible arpeggiator, chord memorizer, transposer, 
and more. These can be inserted in instrument channels and process MIDI data in real time. 
If you have an interest in creating your own MIDI processing (or generation) utilities, the 
Scripter plug-in enables you to build custom JavaScript plug-ins. See MIDI plug-ins.

Rounding out the collection are spatial and frequency enhancement plug-ins, and useful 
studio utilities such as a test oscillator. See Imaging processors, Specialized effects, and 
Utilities and tools.

Add, remove, move, and copy plug-ins in Logic Pro 
for Mac
You can add plug-ins, replace a plug-in with a different one, and remove plug-ins from a 
channel strip. You can also move, copy, and bypass plug-ins. If you’re unhappy with any  
of your plug-in adjustments, you can undo them.

Add an audio effect plug-in

In a Logic Pro channel strip, do one of the following:

•  Click an Audio Effect slot, then choose a plug-in from the pop-up menu.

The last visible empty Audio Effect slot in a channel strip is shown at half its height; use 
it in the same way.

8

Logic Pro Effects for Mac•  Option-click an Audio Effect slot.

You can now choose legacy plug-ins from the pop-up menu.

Add a MIDI effect plug-in

In a Logic Pro instrument channel strip, do one of the following:

•  Click the MIDI Effect slot, then choose a plug-in from the pop-up menu.

•  Place the pointer above or below an occupied MIDI Effect slot, click the green line that 

appears, then choose a plug-in from the pop-up menu.

Replace a plug-in

• 

In a Logic Pro channel strip, place the pointer over the plug-in slot, click the arrows that 
appear to the right, then choose a plug-in to replace the existing one.

9

Logic Pro Effects for MacRemove a plug-in

• 

In a Logic Pro channel strip, place the pointer over the plug-in slot, click the arrows that 
appear to the right, then choose No Plug-in from the pop-up menu.

Move an effect or MIDI plug-in

• 

In a Logic Pro channel strip, drag the plug-in up or down in the channel strip, or to 
another channel strip.

For guidance, use the line that appears when moving the plug-in.

Copy an effect or MIDI plug-in

• 

In a Logic Pro channel strip, press and hold Option and drag the plug-in to an  
unused slot.

Bypass a plug-in

If you want to deactivate a plug-in, but don’t want to remove it from the channel strip, you 
can bypass it. Bypassed plug-ins don’t drain system resources.

• 

In Logic Pro, to bypass a single plug-in, do one of the following:

•  Place the pointer over the plug-in slot, then click the Bypass button that appears to 

the left.

10

Logic Pro Effects for Mac•  Option-click the plug-in slot.

•  Click the center area of the plug-in slot to open the plug-in window, then click the 

Bypass button at the left side of the plug-in window header.

•  To bypass multiple plug-ins, click a plug-in slot, then drag the pointer up or down.

All swiped plug-in slots switch to the same state.

11

Logic Pro Effects for MacAmps and pedals

Amps and pedals in Logic Pro for Mac
Logic Pro features an extensive collection of guitar and bass amplifiers and classic pedal 
effects. You can play live—or process recorded audio and software instrument parts—
through these amps and effects.

The amplifier models recreate vintage and modern tube and solid-state amps. Built-
in effect units, such as reverb, tremolo, or vibrato, are also reproduced. The modeled 
amplifiers can be paired with a number of emulated speaker cabinets. These amplifiers 
and speaker cabinets can be used as a matching set or combined in other ways to create 
interesting hybrids.

Also emulated are a number of “classic” foot pedal effects—or stompboxes—that were, and 
remain, popular with guitarists and keyboardists. As with their real-world counterparts, you 
can chain pedals in any order to create your sound.

Stompbox effects can be used in the Pedalboard plug-in, or you can use them individually 
in channel strip effect slots. See Stompboxes.

If you’re new to using plug-ins in Logic Pro, see Add, remove, move, and copy plug-ins.

12

Logic Pro Effects for MacAmp Designer

Amp Designer overview in Logic Pro for Mac

Amp Designer emulates the sound of more than 20 famous guitar amplifiers and the 
speaker cabinets used with them. Each preconfigured model combines an amp, a cabinet, 
and EQ that recreates a well-known guitar amplifier sound. You can process guitar signals 
directly, reproducing the sound of your guitar played through these amplification systems. 
You can also use Amp Designer for experimental sound design and processing. You can use 
it with other instruments as well, applying the sonic character of a guitar amp to a trumpet 
or vocal part, for example.

The amplifiers, cabinets, and EQs emulated by Amp Designer can be combined in 
numerous ways to alter the tone. Virtual microphones are used to pick up the signal of 
the emulated amplifier and cabinet. You can choose from, and position, seven different 
microphone types. Amp Designer also emulates classic guitar amplifier effects, including 
spring reverb, vibrato, and tremolo.

To add Amp Designer to your project, choose Amps and Pedals > Amp Designer in a 
channel strip Audio Effect plug-in menu. See Add, remove, move, and copy plug-ins.

The Amp Designer interface is divided into four main parameter sections.

•  Model parameters: The Model pop-up menu at the bottom of the window is used to 
choose a preconfigured model, consisting of an amplifier, a cabinet, an EQ type, and 
a microphone type. The other pop-up menus enable you to independently choose the 
type of amplifier, cabinet, and microphone. See Build a custom Amp Designer combo.

•  Amp parameters: Located at each end of the knobs section, these parameters are  
used to set the input gain, presence, and output level of an amp. See Amp Designer 
amplifier controls.

•  Effects parameters: Located in the center of the knobs section, these parameters 

control the integrated effects. See Amp Designer effects overview.

13

Logic Pro Effects for Mac•  Microphone parameters: Located at the right of the interface, these parameters set  

the type and position of the microphone that captures the amplifier and cabinet sound. 
See Amp Designer microphone parameters.

•  Output slider: The Output slider (or the Output field, in the small interface) is found 
at the lower-right corner of the interface. It serves as the final level control for 
Amp Designer output that is fed to ensuing effect slots in the channel strip or directly  
to the channel strip output.
Note: This parameter is different from the Master control, which serves the dual 
purpose of sound design as well as controlling the level of the Amp section.

Switch between the full and small versions of the interface
•  Window size: In Logic Pro, click the disclosure arrow to switch between the full and 

small versions of the interface.

In the small interface, you can access all parameters except microphone selection  
and positioning.

Choose an Amp Designer model

You can use the Model pop-up menu to choose a preconfigured model, or you can build 
a customized model using the Amp, Cabinet, and Mic pop-up menus. See Build a custom 
Amp Designer combo. Your choices remain visible in the pop-up menus and they are also 
illustrated in the visual display above them. For example, if you choose Tweed 4X10 from 
the Cabinet pop-up menu, you see the Tweed cabinet with four 10” speakers on the right 
side of the display.

•  Model pop-up menu: In Logic Pro, choose a preconfigured model, consisting of an 

amplifier, a cabinet, an EQ type, and a microphone type.

14

Logic Pro Effects for MacAmp Designer models in Logic Pro for Mac

You can learn about different Amp Designer models, their tone and sonic character, and the 
musical styles they have traditionally been associated with.

Tweed Combos

The Tweed models are based on American combos from the 1950s and early 1960s that 
helped define the sounds of blues, rock, and country music. They have warm, complex, 
clean sounds that progress smoothly through gentle distortion to raucous overdrive as  
you increase the gain. Even after half a century, Tweeds can still sound contemporary. 
Many modern boutique amplifiers are based on Tweed-style circuitry.

Model

Description

Small Tweed Combo

Large Tweed Combo

Mini Tweed Combo

A 1 x 12” combo that transitions smoothly from clean to crunchy, making it 
a great choice for blues and rock. For extra definition, set the Treble and 
Presence controls to a value around 7.

This 4 x 10” combo was originally intended for bassists, but it was also 
used by blues and rock guitarists. It is more open and transparent-
sounding than the Small Tweed Combo, but it can deliver crunchy sounds.

A small amp with a single 10” speaker, used by countless blues and rock 
artists. It is quite punchy-sounding and can deliver the clean and crunch 
tones that Tweed combos are known for.

 Tip: Tweed combos are responsive to playing dynamics. Adjust the knobs to create a 
distorted sound, then reduce the level of your guitar volume knob to create a cleaner tone. 
Turn up your guitar volume knob when soloing.

Classic American Combos

The Black Panel, Brown Panel, and Silver Panel models are inspired by American combos 
of the mid 1960s. These tend to be loud and clean with a tight low-end and restrained 
distortion. They are useful for clean-toned rock, vintage R & B, surf music, twangy country, 
jazz, or any other style where strong note definition is essential.

Model

Description

Large Black Panel Combo

A 4 x 10” combo with a sweet, well-balanced tone favored by rock,  
surf, and R & B players. Great for lush, reverb-saturated chords or  
strident solos.

Silver Panel Combo

A 2 x 12” combo with a loud, clean tone. It has a percussive, articulate 
attack that is suitable for funk, R & B, and intricate chord work. It can be 
crunchy when overdriven, but most players favor it for clean tones.

Mini Black Panel Combo

A 1 x 10” combo that is bright and open-sounding, with reasonable low 
end impact. It excels at clean tones with a minimal overdrive.

Small Brown Panel Combo

A 1 x 12” combo that is smooth and rich-sounding, but retains a level  
of detail.

Blues Blaster Combo

A 1 x 15” combo that has a clear top end with a tight, defined low end. 
This model is favored by blues and rock players.

15

Logic Pro Effects for Mac Tip: Although these amps tend toward a clean and tight sound, you can use a 

Pedalboard distortion stompbox to attain hard-edged crunch sounds with sharp treble  
and extended low-end definition. See Pedalboard distortion pedals.

British Stacks

The British Stack models are based on the 50- and 100-watt amplifier heads that have 
largely defined the sound of heavy rock, especially when paired with 4 x 12” cabinets. At 
medium gain settings, these amps are suitable for thick chords and riffs. Raising the gain 
yields lyrical solo tones and powerful rhythm guitar parts. Complex peaks and dips across 
the tonal spectrum keep the tones clear and appealing, even when heavy distortion is used.

Model

Description

Vintage British Stack

Modern British Stack

Brown Stack

Captures the sound of a late 1960s 50-watt amp famed for its powerful, 
smooth distortion. Notes retain clarity, even at maximum gain. After four 
decades this remains a definitive rock tone.

1980s and 1990s descendants of the Vintage British amplifier head, which 
were optimized for hard rock and metal styles of the time. Tonally, it has a 
deeper and brighter sound at the low and high end, with a more “scooped” 
midrange than the Vintage British amp.

Unique tones can be coaxed from a British head by running it at lower 
voltages than its designers intended. The resulting “brown” sound—often 
more distorted and loose than the standard tone—can add interesting 
thickness to a guitar sound.

 Tip: The classic British head and 4 x 12” cabinet combo is ideal for riffs at high  
gain levels. These heads can also sound good through small cabinets, or at clean,  
low-gain settings.

British Combos

The British Combos capture the brash, treble-rich sound associated with 1960s British rock 
and pop. The sonic signature of these amps is characterized by their high-end response, 
yet they are rarely harsh-sounding due to a mellow distortion and smooth compression.

Model

Description

British Blues Combo

British Combo

Small British Combo

Boutique British Combo

This 2 x 12” combo has a loud, aggressive tone that is cleaner than the 
British heads, yet delivers rich distorted tones at high gain settings.

A 2 x 12” combo based on early 1960s amps. Perfect for chiming chords 
and crisp solos.

A 1 x 12” combo with half the power of the British Combo, this amp offers 
a darker, less open tone.

A 2 x 12” combo that is a modern take on the original 1960s sound. The 
tone is thicker, with stronger lows and milder highs than the other British 
Combos.

 Tip: You can often use higher Treble and Presence knob settings with the British 

Combos than with other amp types. If the British Blues Combo is too clean for your needs, 
combine it with the Pedalboard Hi Drive stompbox for an aggressive blues tone, or the 
Candy Fuzz stompbox for a heavy rock tone. See Pedalboard distortion pedals. 

16

Logic Pro Effects for MacBritish Alternatives

The late 1960s amplifier heads and combos that inspired the Sunshine models are loud and 
aggressive, with full mid frequencies. These amps are useful for single note solos, power 
chords, and big, open chords—making them popular with the “Brit-pop” bands of the 
1990s. The Stadium amps are famed for their ability to play at extremely high levels without 
dissolving into an indistinct distortion. They retain crisp treble and superb note definition, 
even at maximum gain settings.

Model

Description

Sunshine Stack

Small Sunshine Combo

Stadium Stack

A robust-sounding head paired with a 4 x 12” cabinet. It is a good choice 
for powerful pop-rock chords. If the tone is too dark, use a high Treble 
knob setting to open up the sound.

A 1 x 12” combo based on a modern amp known for a “big amp” sound. It 
is brighter than the Sunshine Stack head and has tonal qualities similar 
to the 1960s British Combo. This amp also sounds good with a 4 x 12” 
cabinet.

A classic head and 4 x 12” cabinet configuration popular with 1970s arena 
rock bands. Its tones are cleaner than other Amp Designer 4 x 12” stacks, 
but it retains body and impact. A good choice if you need power and 
clarity.

Stadium Combo

A 2 x 12” combo based on a modern amp. The tone is smoother than the 
Stadium Stack.

 Tip: The Stadium amps can be slow to distort, so most famous users have paired them 
with aggressive fuzz pedals. Try combining them with the Pedalboard Candy Fuzz or Fuzz 
Machine stompboxes. See Pedalboard distortion pedals.

Metal Stacks

The Metal Stack models are inspired by the powerful, high gain amplifier heads favored by 
modern hard rock and metal musicians. All are paired with 4 x 12” cabinets. Their signature 
tones range from heavy distortion to extremely heavy distortion. These models are ideal if 
you want powerful lows, harsh highs, and long sustain in your guitar tones.

Model

Description

Modern American Stack

A powerful high-gain amp that is ideal for heavy rock and metal. Use the 
Mids knob to set the right amount of scoop or boost.

High Octane Stack

Turbo Stack

Although a powerful, high-gain amp, this model offers a smooth transition 
between gain settings and natural compression. It is a good choice for fast 
soloing and for two- or three-note chords.

An aggressive-sounding amp with spiky highs and noisy harmonics, 
especially at high gain settings. Use the Turbo Stack when you need a 
guitar tone that cuts through a mix.

 Tip: Combining the Turbo Stack with distortion and fuzz pedals can diminish the edgy 

tone. A dry sound is often the best choice for high-impact riffs.

17

Logic Pro Effects for MacAdditional Combos

The combos and utility models in this category are versatile amps that you can use for a 
wide variety of musical styles.

Model

Description

Studio Combo

Boutique Retro Combo

Pawnshop Combo

A 1 x 12” combo based on boutique combos of the 1980s and 1990s. 
These models use multiple gain stages to generate smooth, sustain-heavy 
distortion and bold, bright, clean sounds. Can deliver a heavier sound 
when paired with a 4 x 12” cabinet.

A 2 x 12” combo inspired by expensive modern amps that combine the 
sounds of several 1960s combos. It excels at clean and crunch tones, 
making it a good choice when you want an old-fashioned flavor but with 
the crisp highs and defined lows of a modern amplifier. This model has 
very sensitive tone controls that can deliver countless guitar tones.

A 1 x 8” combo based on the inexpensive amps sold in American 
department stores in the 1960s. Despite their limited features and budget 
workmanship, these amps are the secret behind the sound of many rock, 
blues, and punk players. The clean sounds are warm, and distorted sounds 
are thick, despite the small speaker.

Transparent Preamp

A preamp stage with no coloration. Note that Transparent Preamp is 
activated in the Amp pop-up menu, not in the Model pop-up menu.

 Tip: Combine the Pawnshop Combo amp with the Pedalboard Hi Drive or Candy  

Fuzz stompboxes to emulate hard rock tones of the late 1960s. See Pedalboard  
distortion pedals.

Amp Designer cabinets in Logic Pro for Mac

Learn about the properties and tone of each cabinet model available in Amp Designer.

Cabinet

Tweed 1 x 12

Tweed 4 x 10

Tweed 1 x 10

Description

A 12” open-back cabinet from the 1950s with a warm and smooth tone.

A 4 x 10” open-back cabinet from the late 1950s that was originally 
conceived for bassists but that guitarists use for its sparkling presence.

A single 10” open-back combo amp cabinet from the 1950s with a  
smooth sound.

Black Panel 4 x 10

Classic open-back cabinet with four 10” speakers. Its tone is deeper and 
darker than the Tweed 4 x 10.

Silver Panel 2 x 12

An open-back model from the 1960s that provides low-end punch.

Black Panel 1 x 10

An open-back 1960s cabinet with glassy highs and low/mid body.

Brown Panel 1 x 12

Brown Panel 1 x 15

A balanced 1960s open-back cabinet that is smooth, transparent, and 
rich-sounding.

This early 1960s open-back cabinet houses the largest speaker emulated 
by Amp Designer. Its highs are clear and glassy, and its lows are tight  
and focused.

18

Logic Pro Effects for MacCabinet

Description

Vintage British 4 x 12

This late 1960s closed-back cabinet is synonymous with classic rock. The 
tone is big and thick yet also bright and lively, due to the complex phase 
cancelations between the four 30-watt speakers.

Modern British 4 x 12

A closed-back 4 x 12” cabinet that is brighter and has a better low end 
than the Vintage British 4 x 12, with less midrange emphasis.

Brown 4 x 12

A closed-back 4 x 12” cabinet with a good low end and complex midrange.

British Blues 2 x 12

A bright-sounding open-back cabinet with solid lows and crisp highs, even 
at high gain settings.

Modern American 4 x 12

A closed-back 4 x 12” cabinet with a full sound. The lows and mids are 
denser than the British 4 x 12” cabinets.

Studio 1 x 12

British 2 x 12

British 1 x 12

A compact-sounding open-back cabinet with full mids and glassy highs.

A mid 1960s open-back cabinet with an open, smooth tone.

A small open-back cabinet with crisp highs and low/mid transparency.

Boutique British 2 x 12

A 2 x 12” cabinet based on the British 2 x 12. It has a richer midrange and 
is more powerful in the treble range.

Sunshine 4 x 12

A 4 x 12” closed-back cabinet with a thick, rich midrange.

Sunshine 1 x 12

A single 12” open-back combo amp cabinet with a lively sound that has 
bright, sweet highs, and transparent mids.

Stadium 4 x 12

A tight, bright, closed-back British cabinet with bold upper/mid peaks.

Stadium 2 x 12

A nicely balanced modern British open-back cabinet. Tonally, it is a 
compromise between the warmth of the Black Panel 4 x 10 and the 
brilliance of the British 2 x 12.

Boutique Retro 2 x 12

A 2 x 12” cabinet based on the British 2 x 12. It has a rich, open midrange 
and is more powerful in the treble range.

High Octane 4 x 12

Turbo 4 x 12

A modern, closed-back European cabinet with strong lows and highs and 
scooped mids appropriate for metal and heavy rock.

A modern, closed-back European cabinet with strong lows, very strong 
highs, and deeply scooped mids appropriate for metal and heavy rock.

Pawnshop 1 x 8

A single 8” speaker cabinet that has a strong low-end punch.

Direct

This option bypasses the speaker emulation section.

 Tip: A creative sound design option is to choose Direct from the Cabinet pop-up menu, 

insert Space Designer in the next free effect slot, then load one of the “warped” speaker 
impulse responses.

19

Logic Pro Effects for MacBuild a custom Amp Designer combo in Logic Pro for Mac

You can use one of the default models or you can create your own hybrid of different 
amplifiers, cabinets, and so on. You create your own by using the Amp, Cabinet, and Mic 
pop-up menus, located at the bottom of the window, as well as the EQ pop-up menu.

Note: If you create your own hybrid amp combo, you can use the Settings pop-up menu to 
save it as a setting file, which also includes any parameter changes you have made.

Choose an Amp Designer amplifier

• 

In Logic Pro, choose an amplifier from the Amp pop-up menu. See Amp Designer 
models for details on the characteristics of each amplifier type.

Choose an Amp Designer cabinet

Cabinets have a huge impact on the character of a guitar sound (see Amp Designer 
cabinets).

Whereas certain amplifier and cabinet pairings have been popular for decades, departing 
from them can be an effective way to create fresh-sounding tones. For example, most 
players automatically associate British heads with 4 x 12” cabinets. Amp Designer lets you 
drive a small speaker with a powerful head, or pair a tiny amp with a 4 x 12” cabinet. You 
can experiment with random amplifier and cabinet combinations, but you can also make 
an educated guess about nontraditional combinations by considering the variables that 
determine the “sound” of the cabinet.

• 

In Logic Pro, choose a cabinet from the Cabinet pop-up menu. Use the following 
considerations to guide your decision:
•  Combos or Stacks: Combo amps include both an amplifier and speakers in a single 
enclosure. These usually have an open back, so the sound resonates in multiple 
directions. The resulting sound is open—with bright, airy highs and a spacious 
sound. Amplifier stacks consist of an amplifier head, with the speakers in a separate 
cabinet. These cabinets generally have a closed back and project the sound forward 
in a tight, focused beam. They tend to sound more powerful than open-back 
cabinets, and typically have a tighter low-end response at the expense of some 
high-end transparency.

20

Logic Pro Effects for Mac
